<h1> Machine Learning Portfolio </h1>
<p>This repository contains codes for machine learning, deep learning and data science projects completed by me for academic, self learning and hobby purposes. Presented in form of Jupyter and Colab notebooks.</p>

<h2> Instruction for Running Python Notebooks</h2>
<ol>
<li> Run notebooks as usual by using a jupyter notebook server, Vscode etc. </li>
</ol>
<h2> Projects or Notebooks</h2>
<ol>
  <li> <h3>5 Model COVIDPosts:</h3> This is one of the codes I facilitated for our bachelor's thesis <a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9666567">'Demystifying Black box Learning Models of Rumor Detection from Social Media Posts'</a>. Here we implemented 5 Different Models (SVM, XGBoost, Decision Tree Classifer, Extra Tree Classifier and Random Forest Classifer) and compared the result. We used “Constraint@AAAI2021 - COVID19 Fake News Detection” competition datasets that contains 8560 posts about the COVID-19 pandemic. We used NLTK packages and TF-IDF Vectorization to preprocess the dataset before fitting in the models. After prediction we used Lime to interpret our models. </li>
  <li> <h3>5 Model GeneralPosts:</h3> This is one of the codes I facilitated for our bachelor's thesis <a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9666567">'Demystifying Black box Learning Models of Rumor Detection from Social Media Posts'</a>. Here we implemented 5 Different Models (SVM, XGBoost, Decision Tree Classifer, Extra Tree Classifier and Random Forest Classifer) and compared the result. We used publically available Twitter15 and Twitter 16 datasets released by J. Ma, W. Gao, and K.-F. Wong, “Detect rumors in microblog posts using propagation structure via kernel learning,” in Proceedings of the 55th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers). Association for Computational Linguistics, 2017, pp. 708–717. We used NLTK packages to preprocess the dataset before fitting in the models. After prediction we used Lime to interpret our models. </li>
  <li> <h3>BERT COVIDPosts:</h3> This is one of the codes I facilitated for our bachelor's thesis <a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9666567">'Demystifying Black box Learning Models of Rumor Detection from Social Media Posts'</a>. Here we implemented BERT(Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers) Deep Learning framework. We used “Constraint@AAAI2021 - COVID19 Fake News Detection” competition datasets that contains 8560 posts about the COVID-19 pandemic. We used NLTK packages, Label Encoding and BERT Tokenization to preprocess the dataset before fitting in the models. After prediction we used Lime to interpret our models. </li>
  <li> <h3>BERT GeneralPosts:</h3> This is one of the codes I facilitated for our bachelor's thesis <a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9666567">'Demystifying Black box Learning Models of Rumor Detection from Social Media Posts'</a>. Here we implemented BERT(Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers) Deep Learning framework.We used publically available Twitter15 and Twitter 16 datasets released by J. Ma, W. Gao, and K.-F. Wong, “Detect rumors in microblog posts using propagation structure via kernel learning,” in Proceedings of the 55th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers). Association for Computational Linguistics, 2017, pp. 708–717. We used NLTK packages, Label Encoding and BERT Tokenization to preprocess the dataset before fitting in the models. After prediction we used Lime to interpret our models. </li>
  <li> <h3>Hybrid Ensemble Model COVIDPosts:</h3> This is one of the codes I facilitated for our bachelor's thesis <a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9666567">'Demystifying Black box Learning Models of Rumor Detection from Social Media Posts'</a>. Here we implemented a hybrid model consisting of 25 instance of 5 Different Models (SVM, XGBoost, Decision Tree Classifer, Extra Tree Classifier and Random Forest Classifer) with 5 instance from each model with different parameters. We used “Constraint@AAAI2021 - COVID19 Fake News Detection” competition datasets that contains 8560 posts about the COVID-19 pandemic. We used NLTK packages and TF-IDF Vectorization to preprocess the dataset before fitting in the models. After prediction we used Lime to interpret our models. </li>
  <li> <h3>Hybrid Ensemble Model GeneralPosts:</h3> This is one of the codes I facilitated for our bachelor's thesis <a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9666567">'Demystifying Black box Learning Models of Rumor Detection from Social Media Posts'</a>. Here we implemented a hybrid model consisting of 25 instance of 5 Different Models (SVM, XGBoost, Decision Tree Classifer, Extra Tree Classifier and Random Forest Classifer) with 5 instance from each model with different parameters. We used publically available Twitter15 and Twitter 16 datasets released by J. Ma, W. Gao, and K.-F. Wong, “Detect rumors in microblog posts using propagation structure via kernel learning,” in Proceedings of the 55th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers). Association for Computational Linguistics, 2017, pp. 708–717. We used NLTK packages and TF-IDF Vectorization to preprocess the dataset before fitting in the models. After prediction we used Lime to interpret our models. </li>
  <li> <h3>LSTM COVIDPosts:</h3> This is one of the codes I facilitated for our bachelor's thesis <a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9666567">'Demystifying Black box Learning Models of Rumor Detection from Social Media Posts'</a>. Here we implemented LSTM(Long Short-Term Memory) a deep Learning framework. We used “Constraint@AAAI2021 - COVID19 Fake News Detection” competition datasets that contains 8560 posts about the COVID-19 pandemic. We used NLTK packages to preprocess the dataset before fitting in the models. After prediction we used Lime to interpret our models. </li>
  <li> <h3>LSTM GeneralPosts:</h3> This is one of the codes I facilitated for our bachelor's thesis <a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9666567">'Demystifying Black box Learning Models of Rumor Detection from Social Media Posts'</a>. Here we implemented LSTM(Long Short-Term Memory) a deep Learning framework.  We used publically available Twitter15 and Twitter 16 datasets released by J. Ma, W. Gao, and K.-F. Wong, “Detect rumors in microblog posts using propagation structure via kernel learning,” in Proceedings of the 55th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers). Association for Computational Linguistics, 2017, pp. 708–717. We used NLTK packages to preprocess the dataset before fitting in the models. After prediction we used Lime to interpret our models. </li>
  
</ol>


<!-- Here are the codes we did for Demystifying Black box Learning Models of Rumor Detection from Social Media Posts
There is two types of dataset used one in for general social media posts and another one is Covid-19 related Social Media Posts. We used five Machine Learning Models ( SVC, XGBoost, Random Forest, Extra Random Tree Classifier, Decision Tree Classifier) separately and also created a hybrid ensemble model consisting to all five models five times and two Deep Learning Models (LSTM and Bert) to predict rumor and non-rumor labels from that posts in the datasets. -->
